Multivariate time series clustering has become an important research topic in the time series learning task, which aims to discover the correlation among multiple sequences and partition multivariate time series data into several subsets. Although there are currently some methods that can handle this task, most of them fail to discover informative subsequences from multivariate time series instances. In this paper, we first propose a novel unsupervised shapelet learning with adaptive neighbors (USLA) model for learning salient multivariate subsequences (i.e., multivariate shapelets), where the importance of each sequence can be auto-determined when given a candidate multivariate shapelet. USLA performs multivariate shapelet-transformed representation learning and local structure learning simultaneously, but the performance of USLA with multivariate shapelets of different lengths is comparable to that of isometric multivariate shapelets. In fact, multivariate shapelets of different lengths contain the multiple frequency information of multivariate time series. Therefore, we develop a novel multiview USLA (MUSLA) model which considers each shapelet-based representation learned from shapelets of different lengths as a view. In this way, different views contain the shape information in different frequencies of the original multivariate time series. Moreover, MUSLA can learn the importance of each view and the neighbor graph matrix among multiview shapelet-based representations when candidate multiview multivariate shapelets are determined.

--------------------------------- download datasets ---------------------------------
All data sets are freely available on the website  http://www.timeseriesclassification.com/dataset.php

------------------------------------- run codes -------------------------------------
1. Open folder "run_code". 
2. Run "demo_USLA.m" for USLA  or Run "demo_MUSLA.m" for MUSLA 